add page comparing Web Client and RPC (#10)
onmax/nimiq-developer-center: build/web-client-rpc.md

> # Web Client X RPC

Reviewer: Other suggestions:
- "Web Client VS RPC Client"
- "Comparing Web Client and RPC Client" to interact with the Nimiq Blockchain

> I am not a big fan of the "X"

If you're unsure which client to use for interacting with the Nimiq blockchain, this page offers a comparison between the Nimiq Web Client and the RPC so you can choose the tool that best fits your needs and expertise. {.subline}

### TL;DR

> The Nimiq Web Client establishes direct connections with other peers in the network, making it a part of the blockchain network. In contrast, the RPC follows a client-server model, where clients connect to a single server that interacts with multiple peers on the network.

Reviewer 2: I'd switch the order of either the mentions of the client types in the text, or the order in the graphic. Right now the web client is mentioned first, but the RPC client is on the left, which confused me at first.

Reviewer 2: For me, an important differentiating factor is that the web-client only runs in Javascript environments, whereas RPC can be used from any programming language and environment, as it's _just_ HTTP calls.

> <img class="object-contain max-h-[max(60vh,180px)]" src="/assets/images/protocol/network.png" alt="skip block struct" />

Reviewer: Nice picture!

What about changing the title of the left block to "Nimiq Web Client" and the title of the right block "RPC Client".

Author: Soeren's idea! yes, I'm on it

## Nimiq Web Client

> The [Nimiq Web Client](/build/web-client/getting-started.md) is a JavaScript library that enables direct participation in the Nimiq PoS ecosystem directly from your web browser. This client is compiled from Rust to WebAssembly and offers a lightweight solution for users who want to interact with the Nimiq blockchain.

Reviewer 3: The browser is one environment in where the Web Client can run, but not limited to. NodeJS is supported too I believe. 

@sisou how would you describe it as 'JavaScript runtimes' would be too inclusive as we haven't tested in Deno or Bun afaik.

Reviewer 2: That's right. `wasm-pack` (which we use for building the client) also has support for Deno, which is on my list to add to the package.

The Web Client provides a user-friendly interface for building consensus with other nodes, creating wallets, sending transactions, and interacting with the blockchain with simple operations. It simplifies user interaction and offers easy integration.

> Users can access the Web Client on mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, providing flexibility and convenience for managing their Nimiq wallets and transactions on the go. The Web Client is designed to be compatible with major web browsers, including Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Edge, ensuring a consistent user experience across different platforms.

Reviewer 2: Also add Safari please.

## Nimiq RPC

> The Nimiq RPC provides developers access to the Nimiq blockchain and establishes a connection between a client and a single server, which then interacts with multiple peers on the network.

Reviewer: "The Nimiq RPC provides developers access to the a node that is part of the Nimiq blockchain"

The RPC offers more elaborate functionalities, such as retrieving information about the blockchain state, submitting transactions, managing accounts, and configuring node settings. It is particularly valuable for developers and nodes who require advanced control and automation of blockchain operations.

> The RPC supports interaction with nodes and allows users to call its endpoints using JavaScript or shell scripting languages. Comprehensive API documentation is available for the RPC, detailing the methods, parameters, and endpoints supported by the interface, facilitating seamless integration and development.

Reviewer: When mentioning the RPC docs, what about linking the page to the JSON-RPC spec?

Same for web client, add a link to the docs

> The RPC supports interaction with nodes and allows users to call its endpoints using JavaScript or shell scripting languages. Comprehensive API documentation is available for the RPC, detailing the methods, parameters, and endpoints supported by the interface, facilitating seamless integration and development.

Reviewer 3: It is correct that you can interact with a node via JavaScript or shell(cURL is one way of doing it), but definitely not limited to those. Basically every environment/language/software that can send requests conform the JSON-RPC specification can interact with the node via RPC.

> The RPC supports interaction with nodes and allows users to call its endpoints using JavaScript, shell scripting languages, or any language or software capable of sending requests according to the JSON-RPC specification. Comprehensive API documentation is available for the RPC, detailing the methods, parameters, and endpoints supported by the interface, facilitating seamless integration and development.

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove "the" in front of RPC everywhere. Just "RPC supports interaction [...]".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RPC supports interaction with nodes and allows users to call its endpoints using HTTP from any language or software capable of sending requests according to the JSON-RPC specification. Comprehensive API documentation is available for the RPC, detailing the methods, parameters, and endpoints supported by the interface, facilitating seamless integration and development.
```

## How to know which one to use?

| Aspect | Web Client | RPC Client |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | Use Case | Simple blockchain tasks | Complex blockchain operations |

Reviewer 3: Kinda duplicate of the `Functionality` aspect and would favour that one.

> | Nimiq Use | Nimiq Pay App | TrustWallet |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Nimiq Use | Nimiq Wallet, Nimiq Pay | TrustWallet, Block explorer |
```

> | Accessibility | Works in web browsers | Requires coding skills to use |

Reviewer 3: Interacting with the Web Client requires coding skills too so this feels a bit odd. I think for the Web Client, the accessibility would be JavaScript runtimes. This would include NodeJS, browsers and frameworks like Vue. For the RPC client, it would be adhering the [JSON-RPC specification](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification)

> | Functionality | Basic blockchain tasks | Gives detailed control over blockchain functions |

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't call it "basic" what the web client can do. It can interact with the blockchain just like you can with RPC. You can send all types of transactions and do with your accounts everything possible in the protocol. RPC just gives you control over the _node_, too. And since the node is usually a full or history node, it has more options than the web-client's light node type.

> | User Base | Easy for beginners | For developers, experienced users, validators |

Reviewer 2: I'm also not too happy differentiating the client types between beginners and experienced devs. If anything, the web-client is more for experienced devs, as you need to maintain consensus in a JS event loop, handle lost consensus, handle missed events, handle rate limits. 

The RPC client is much more friendly to quick and dirty data fetching, as the server is already running stable and the client can very quickly get wanted info.

When interacting with the Nimiq blockchain, users have the option to choose between the Web Client and the RPC, each offering distinct advantages based on their needs and expertise. Let’s take a look at what you can do with both.

### Web Client

For users seeking a straightforward and user-friendly way to interact with the blockchain, the Nimiq Web Client is the ideal choice. With its intuitive interface, users can perform basic operations such as creating wallets, sending transactions, and checking balances within their browsers. The Web Client simplifies blockchain interactions, making it accessible to users of all skill levels. Some of the operations supported by the Web Client include:

- Create new wallet addresses
- Send transactions to other addresses
- View transaction history
- Check account balances

### RPC

> For developers, tech-savvies, and validators looking for more advanced control over blockchain operations, the Nimiq RPC provides extensive capabilities for access to nodes. Through established methods and endpoints, users can perform a wide range of operations, including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For developers, tech-savvies, and validators looking for more advanced control over blockchain operations, the Nimiq RPC provides extensive capabilities for accessing their nodes. Through established methods and endpoints, users can perform a wide range of operations, including:
```

- Create new accounts

> - Create special transactions, such as deactivating validators or redeeming early HTLCs

Reviewer 2: web-client can do that, too

- List all available accounts and their balances

> - Subscribe to updates for head block hashes and consensus establishment

Reviewer 2: web-client can do that, too
